How can we add color?
It starts in our interfaces, there
I want to go to my data point and each data point, each bar, what it will be in the end should have a color property
of course.
So here I will set color to string because it is red, green, something like that or a hexadecimal code.
So that's the first place to do something
but of course not the only place, we also need to make sure that we respect the color here in our visual
transform function because that is where we extract the data and therefore also information about the
color.
How do we do that now? I'll do it right below here where I defined the maximum data and the data points,
here I'll also set up a color palette
and that simply is an automatically generated palette of colors which fits because we can have multiple
bars and therefore Power BI can do the work about creating a color palette for us.
It will be of type IColorPalette, an interface provided by Power BI since all the internals
are managed by Power BI
and here, I can now use the host I added as an argument,
so the host we're getting here as a second argument, I can use the host to call the color palette property,
so that's the color palette provided by Power BI so that we don't have to mix our own colors here. As a
next step,
I can now use that color palette down here where I push new items and you already have an error there
because we need to set the color property, right, that is what we defined in the interface.
That's the great thing about interfaces
by the way, we were informed that something is missing here.
So how can we set up the color now? We can use the color palette we got from the host
and here we have a method, getColor, to get color, we simply pass a string.
We can use our category for that and on category, we can use the values array and then we can access
the current index,
so just like we do up here and now however, I also need to transform this into a string, just as I do up
here. With that,
we're passing this string to get color,
however that alone is not enough,
we need to get the value of the color because getColor just gives us to color in some different
format, with value we get it as a hexadecimal code which we can use. With that
we're extracting the color but we're not using it yet.
Where do we want to use it? In the update method of course because again, that is where all the displaying
stuff happens
and to be precise, we do it here where we assign a couple of attributes to our individual bars. Besides
width and height and position,
we now also want to define the fill which is the fill of this svg element,
the color therefore and fill also receives the data
and here of course I can then extract dataColor since we know that this will be present on our data
element, right?
With this in place if we hit save and we go back to our chart and we reload it,
it's colored, that is awesome, right?
That was a super simple change, just a couple of lines of codes and now we get a much more nicely looking
chart.
However what if I add a donut chart and add my values here too
and now I select a value here? That updates it in the above chart
but here, I can't select values.
It would be nice if I could also select values here to update them in other charts, just as we are used
to from the other built-in charts.
Let's add such a functionality next.